The player starts in an entry room with a large automated sliding door behind him and a small similar door in front of him. The player is not allowed to leave through the large door [it wouldn’t be much of a game if you just left]. The player may freely open the small door. Opening a door involves the use of a handheld electronic devise that the player holds which supplies an EM-wave at a particular frequency to anything in a narrow forward-facing cone, distinguishable easily at a distance of ~2 meters. This is the premise for how the player can interface with basic objects/switches/doors/etc. from the ruins. This can be thought of with a single keyword ‘trigger’ which represents the use of this device on a particular object.
Doors must be open to be walked through. This will be tedious at first, but it forces the player to master the concept of triggering objects to advance.
Beyond the small door, there is a hallway with another small door at the end opened similarly.
Past the hallway, there is an enormous circular chamber containing countless doors to identical chambers [literally the same room; there is no distinction; through a spatial anomaly, the player may return to the exit hallway from any corresponding door; the ‘doors’ in this chamber link to particular places, whether or not they are properly physically connected; in theory, one could navigate the complex by walking through the right combination of doors; in practice, this could take years, since only a small minority of doors are terminal nodes (the rest lead to new connecting chambers seemingly identical to the first)].
At the center of the circular chamber, there is a cylinder about twice the player’s height and ~3 meters around. This is an elevator of sorts, which provide more convenient transportation through the compound. The door to the elevator can be triggered open. If the door is shut and the player is inside, a computer voice [cv henceforth] wishes the player to enjoy himself, pauses for a moment, realizes the player is having trouble interacting with the elevator, and lights up panels of buttons (triggerable or pressable). The buttons have names of places, in agu, and the player may select any of them. There are three: ‘help center’, ‘entertainment center’, and ‘community center’. Cv prompts the player to select ‘help center’ [transcribed, but not written]. 

The help center contains puzzles 1, 2 & 5.
The entertainment center contains puzzle 4.
The community center contains puzzle 3.

Puzzle 1:
The first room in the help center has been rigged by cv to display a series of sounds [aguabugidagu sylables] in proper order [ordered by consonant then by vowel].
Cv will then speek a single syllable at a time, chosen at random, and will respond to the player pressing the correct syllable symbol with a green flash of light and a pleasant and triumphant tone. Cv will respond to an incorrect choice with a red light and a buzz. The player may leave at any time, and is not being held here, but he may wish to stay until he understands the basics of the aguabugidagu/
Puzzle 2:
There is a standard door in the first room leading to a second room. This new room has a series of numbers [written out as agu words] from 1 to 10 displayed on panels. It also has a math problem of the form ‘ask imik x u’ where the players selection is substituted to the u. If the player’s statement is true, cv gives a green flash and beep. Cv responds to an incorrect choice with a red flash and a buzz.

Puzzle 3:
The community center contains a single panels in the style of a stereotypical scifi computer terminal with agu letters flashing on it to form words. The words ask for an authentication code. Cv helpfully plays a tone to get the players attention and then displays four cubes, then three cubes, then seven cubes, then two cubes, in front of the player on a nearby wall. Cv will repeat this whenever the player enters the room. On the terminal are numbered panels with digits 0-7 in agu [words]. If the buttons are triggered in the sequence provided by cv, the terminal tells the player [in agu] that he has been given guest-level clearance to the facility. A new door now exists in the help center.

Puzzle 4:
The entertainment center contains a large screen on the back wall and a panel [provided by cv] with agu words on it. The words are: adug, akat, amiuman, alesel, asitigu, and atli. Each, when pressed, displays a picture of the corresponding item: a dog, a cat, a human, a laser device [harmless and used to sculpting, but looks like a weapon], the city pre-ruins, and a tree. Whence pressed, each of these words occurs as a dialogue option in puzzle 5.

Puzzle 5:
When the player returns to the help center, there is a new door marked [in agu]: “requisitions office”. The door is unlocked, and the player may freely enter. Inside is a glowing panel built into the wall and what looks like a microphone mounted to the ceiling. There is a box built in to the entrance, which may be opened, but is initially empty. The panel prompt the player for instructions [in agu]. The player may choose to say any agu ‘nouns’ he knows, and the room will try to synthesize the requested item. It can make a dog, a cat, or a laser. It cannot make a copy of the city, or a tree. The player does not have high enough clearance to request a human.

The laser:
This looks like a weapon. The player may fire it. It gives of a warm, but harmless beam of light which mark objects [the way a flint knife might with sufficient force], but is designed not to damage organic materials. This marks the disappointing end to the player’s mission. There should probably be some kind of debriefing from an angry commander after this realization.
